# TicTacToe-AI
Project Description: Design and implement an interactive 4×4 Tic-Tac-Toe game for a person to play against a computer. The game consists of a 4×4 grid. To win, a player must place 4 of his/her symbols on 4 squares that line up vertically, horizontally or diagonally (45 or 135 degrees.) Figure 1 gives an example of a winning pattern for the player with the X symbol. O X O X X O X Figure 1. Play X wins. Use the ALPHA-BETA SEARCH algorithm in Figure 2 to implement your game. Note that in the algorithm in Figure 2, the main function uses min_utility and max_utility as the initial alpha and beta values for the MAX-VALUE function, where min_utility and max_utility are the minimum and maximum utility values defined for terminal nodes in the game. This will allow your program to prune more branches and run more efficiently than using minus infinity and positive infinity as initial values as in the original alpha-beta search algorithm. If your program cannot search to the maximum depth in reasonable time for a move (say 10 seconds), then you should cutoff the search at a certain depth level l and use the following evaluation function to estimate the expected utility value for non-terminal nodes ( ) 6 3 ( ) ( ) (6 3 ( ) ( )) 3 2 1 3 2 1 Eval s = X + X s + X s − O + O s + O s where s is the current state, X n is the number of rows, columns, or diagonals with exactly n X 's and no O’s. Similarly, On is the number of rows, columns, or diagonals with just n O’s. To compute the above evaluation function, you should consider every row and every column but only the middle 45 degree diagonal (with 4 squares) and the middle 135 degree diagonal (with 4 squares). You should set the cutoff level l as far down as possible for your program to perform well (in terms of intelligence) and yet finish computing for a move within 10 seconds. There are three types of terminal nodes: (1) player X wins, (2) player O wins, and (3) draw -- 4×4 grid is filled up and neither player has 4 symbols lined up. Assign a utility value of +1000, -1000 and 0 to the three types of terminal nodes, respectively. Each time the ALPHA-BETA SEARCH function is called to return the best action, output the following information (statistics) on the screen: (1) whether cutoff occurred, (2) maximum depth reached, (3) total number of nodes generated (including root node), and (4) number of times pruning occurred within the MAX-VALUE function and (5) number of times pruning occurred within the MIN-VALUE function
